---
title: "Day 21: something I like to call Chrismukkah"
date: "2017-12-21T12:00:00.000Z"
---

<div class="measure">

## Welcome to the (H)OC

I'm gonna level with you, I don't know to explain higher-order components to you.
I work in analogies and there just isn't one for HOCs.

HOCs are like bacon-wrapped dates, where bacon is functions and dates are components, and bacon harvests dates for the wrapped dates to shove inside themselv...

**WHAT DA?!**

Yeah, no good analogies. [Read the docs](https://reactjs.org/docs/higher-order-components.html).

## The good news

The good news is that most HOCs share a basic skeleton.

Using our language from [yesterday](/2017/20),
here's a HOC named `withKnowledge`.

<style>
  .short-code code { line-height: 1em }
</style>

<div class="short-code">

```jsx
function withKnowledge(UnkowingComponent) {
  class KnowingComponent extends React.Component {
    state = { knowledge: "Things I know" }

    render() {
      return (
        <UnkowingComponent
          {...this.props}
          knowledge={this.state.knowledge}
        />
      )
    }
  }
}
```
<br />

`withKnowleding` wraps our **knowing** component in a function that takes an **unknowing** component as an argument and **smooshes** them together.

Bring your own "knowledge" and you know everything you need to about HOCs.

## Why HOCs are hard to understand

Like [Chrismukkah](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T9C-H_UvbUg), it's just too many things.

Components don't have the same composition mechanics as functions.
So, higher-order components are really high-order component factories.
Now that's two concepts you'de have trouble explaining at a dinner party.
These components are composed outside of `render`, so dev tools kinda shit the bed.
The artifact is your component wrapped in another component with opaque internals.
And when they aren't assigned to intermediate variables, you have to use `React.createElement` instead of JSX.

Too many things.

## Why though?

Higher-order components are another way of [uncoupling](/2017/18) components.
Many popular libraries use them.
</div>

## Tinker with it

Explore the code below.
I've used the higher-order component pattern to **uncouple** `FetchPokemon` from `Pokemon`.
It's now `withPokemon()`.

Can you change it to use a **render prop**?
Which do you prefer?

</div>

<iframe src="https://codesandbox.io/embed/1q7mqxlqj3" style="width:100%; height:500px; border:0; border-radius: 4px; overflow:hidden;" sandbox="allow-modals allow-forms allow-popups allow-scripts allow-same-origin"></iframe>