---
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPost.astro
title: "Undefined is not a Default"
date: "2020-12-15T12:00:00.000Z"
---

I love seeing React’s continued progress toward standard JavaScript.

We went from `createClass` to class in 2014. Then from class to function in 2018. Every major change made a bigger and bigger bet on bone-stock JavaScript.

One API we needed for `createClass` class components was `defaultProps`. It let us use an appropriate fallback where a prop was required but not provided. This API made props available to all of the many lifecycle events.

Now — with Hooks — “lifecycle” functions happen inside the bodies of component functions. So we can lean on standard JavaScript to replace this API.

## Undefined is not default

In our last lesson, we reassigned as (lowercase) to `As` (uppercase) — when unpacking our props with destructuring assignment.

```js
function Greeting({ as: As, name }) { … }
```

Unfortunately this component has a bug. What happens if we try to render it without providing the as prop? It throws an error; it can’t render undefined as a component.

Fortunately, we can declare a default when destructuring props:

```js
function Greeting({ as: As = “div”, name }) { … }
```

## Take it home

Take a minute to change the defaults and explore overriding them in [this CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/as-prop-step-3-fbo7y?file=/src/App.js).

Take it further by asking: is there a way in React that we could render this without any surrounding element? Hint: the answer has to do with what we’ve learned about arrays and React.
