---
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPost.astro
title: "Professor Xavier's School for Mutant Arrays"
date: "2020-12-03T12:00:00.000Z"
---

Every array method is unique.

Some modify an array and return the resulting length. Some run a function for every value and return undefined. Others don't modify anything and return a completely new array.

With [34 methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array), there's a lot to memorize (or search for on StackOverflow).

Fortunately, these methods divide pretty cleanly into two categories: mutating and non-mutating.

## Mutating vs Non-Mutating

Mutate is a funny word. Let's use "modify" instead.

Two methods that let you "add values" to an array are `push()` and `concat()` but they do it in different ways.

items.push("chan") modifies the array assigned to items — it's a mutating method.

`items.concat(["chan"])` does not modify the array assigned to items — it's a non-mutating method. Instead it returns the result as a new array.

## React Favors Immutability

Immuta-what-are-bees? 🐝

React favors functions and methods that don't modify arrays and objects but — istead — return new ones.

So, you'll see a methods like slice, join, map, filter, reduce, and concat used a lot. And you won't see much forEach, push, unshift, and splice.

## Take it home

List the Array methods you frequently use.
Do these methods modify data (mutating) or do they operate on their array instances without modifying the data (non-mutating)?

Check out this tool Matt Sutkowski recommended in our Discord. It'll help you answer the questions above: [doesitmutate.xyz](https://doesitmutate.xyz/)

Also, [join us in Discord](https://chan.dev/discord/) 😁
